=== PDF PAGE 1 ===
1650 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
Design, Modeling, and Control of a Coaxial Drone
Liangming Chen , Senior Member , IEEE, Jiaping Xiao , Graduate Student Member , IEEE, Y umin Zheng ,
N Arun Alagappan , and Mir Feroskhan , Member , IEEE
Abstract—Various quadrotor drones have been developed in
recent years, mainly focusing on either improving maximum thrust
per platform area or ﬂight maneuverability. Evidently, achieving
both advantages simultaneously is a challenging task, since they
call for opposing rotor requirements. Speciﬁcally, improving the
drone’s maximum thrust per platform area mainly requires re-
ducing the number of rotors to make way for larger and more
powerful rotors. While this can be an effective method to increase
overall thrust, improving ﬂight maneuverability requires a greater
number of rotors to generate larger rotating torques or to increase
the thrust vectoring capability. To address this challenge, we design
a novel coaxial drone with two contra-rotating rotors for high thrust
efﬁciency while enabling independent dual-axis rotor rotation to
maintain maneuverability along the roll and pitch axes. The thrust
vectoring capability is provided by two dedicated servomotors
connected vertically in series with the coaxial propellers to produce
a compact and elongated fuselage frame. A nonlinear ﬂight model
in six degrees of freedom is developed for the underactuated system,
incorporating four control inputs from the two propellers and
servos, respectively. Consequently, a nonlinear control allocation
approach is proposed such that the drone can produce a desired
control force and yaw torque to stabilize the drone’s position
and yaw angle. For the uncontrolled roll and pitch dynamics, a
damping component is added such that the roll and pitch angular
velocities can also be stabilized. Both numerical simulations and
real experiments are conducted to validate the design of the drone
and the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
Index Terms—Coaxial drone, control allocation, drone design,
dynamics modeling, ﬂight control, thrust efﬁciency.
Manuscript received 4 June 2023; revised 2 November 2023; accepted 18
December 2023. Date of publication 15 January 2024; date of current version
12 February 2024. This paper was recommended for publication by Associate
Editor F. Ruggiero and Editor P . Robuffo Giordano upon evaluation of the
reviewers’ comments. This work was supported in part by the A*STAR un-
der its 2021 MTC Individual Research Grants (IRG) and Y oung Individual
Research Grants (YIRG) Call under Grant M21K3c0121, and in part by the
Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Control Theory and Intelligent Systems under
Grant ZDSYS20220330161800001. (Liangming Chen and Jiaping Xiao are
co-ﬁrst authors.) (Corresponding authors: Mir Feroskhan; Yumin Zheng.)
Liangming Chen is with the Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Control Theory
and Intelligent Systems and the Center for Control Science and Technology,
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China (e-
mail: chenlm6@sustech.edu.cn).
Jiaping Xiao, N Arun Alagappan, and Mir Feroskhan are with the
School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Nanyang Techno-
logical University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail: jiaping001@e.ntu.edu.sg;
arunalag001@e.ntu.edu.sg; mir.feroskhan@ntu.edu.sg).
Y umin Zheng is with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail: yu-
min004@e.ntu.edu.sg).
This article has supplementary downloadable material available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2024.3354161, provided by the authors.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TRO.2024.3354161
I. I NTRODUCTION
W
ITH the recent technological advancements in aerial
vehicles’ power supply, communication, and onboard
computation, the use of quadrotors in various engineering ap-
plications has become increasingly popular [1]. In particular,
quadrotors can provide increased safety and reduce the cost of
operations in high-risk tasks or environments, such as disaster
management [2], search and rescue [3], bridge and building
inspection [4].
The conventional quadrotor design adopts a plus or cross
conﬁguration with two pairs of counter-rotating propellers con-
nected to a central body. Owe to its mechanically simplicity,
quadrotors enjoy a high stability in hover and a high maneu-
verability in controlled movements involving roll and pitch
motions. However, the maximum thrust per platform area, i.e.,
thrust efﬁciency, for quadrotors is generally limited due to the
presence of four propellers, whose rotor size is proportional to
the central body. Note that the maximum thrust per platform area
is an important index for a drone’s ﬂight duration and power
consumption [5].
Subsequently, this drives the motivation to design a new drone,
which can achieve higher thrust per platform area while still
preserving the same maneuverable degrees of freedom (DoF)
as quadrotors. First, for the thrust efﬁciency, since the power
needed to hover is proportional to the inverse of the rotor’s
radius, a single large rotor will energetically outperform several
smaller rotors within the same boundary [5]. Motivated by this
fact, a triangular quadrotor conﬁguration is proposed in [5] by
using a single large rotor for lift and three small rotors for control.
Also, a bicopter drone is designed in [6], which has similar
levels of versatility and improves the drone’s compactness or
efﬁciency at the same time. Second, to further increase drones’
maneuverable DoF, tilting rotors are employed for the drone
design [7], [8], [9], [10]. For example, an overactuated quadrotor
is developed in [8] based on four tilting rotors. Since coaxial
contra-rotating rotors can provide a compact and anti-torque
solution [11], a coaxial drone is one of the promising options
to simultaneously satisfy these two requirements, i.e., higher
thrust per platform area and the same maneuverable DoF as
quadrotors [12]. The effect of coaxial propellers’ conﬁguration
on propulsion efﬁciency is discussed in [13], which is deﬁned
as the multiplication of the propeller’s efﬁciency, the motor’s
efﬁciency, and the electronic speed controller’s efﬁciency.
Several coaxial drones have been developed in [11], [12],
[14], [15], [16], one of which is the NASA ’s Ingenuity Mars
helicopter, which successfully completed its ﬁrst ﬂight test in
early 2021. The Ingenuity helicopter has contra-rotating coaxial
1941-0468 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 2 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1651
propellers connected to a lightweight body frame. With a high
thrust efﬁciency, the coaxial design of Ingenuity allows it to
perform basic takeoff and landing maneuvers under the thin at-
mosphere and restrictive energy equipment in Mars1. Unlike the
coaxial quadrotor drone in [16], other coaxial drones designed
in [11], [12], [14], [15] contain coaxial propellers, whose roll
and pitch motions are controlled by their designed mechanical
swashplates. Similar to the coaxial drones in [11], [12], [14],
[15], the roll and pitch motions of the Ingenuity helicopter are
independently controlled by two cyclic swashplates 1, each of
which is driven by three small servomotors. However, the use
of two swashplates with six servomotors involves more intricate
moving parts that increase the overall mechanical complexity of
the platform. As a result, with an increased control complexity
of the drone, the probability of failure is also escalated.
Inspired by existing coaxial drones [11], [12], [14], [15], and
the tilting mechanism [6], [7], [8], [9], [10] employed in drone
design, this article presents a compact drone with contra-rotating
coaxial propellers that is capable of achieving independent bi-
axial rotation about two orthogonal axes. This design preserves
the four maneuvering DoF with a higher thrust per platform
area than that of a conventional quadrotor. Unlike the cyclic
swashplate mechanism used in other coaxial drones, only two
servomotors are directly employed to provide thrust vectoring
capability in producing the roll and pitch motions. This enables
the platform to be controlled in a more intuitive and mechanically
simpler way. Another potential advantage of using servomotors
for the control of roll and pitch motions is their larger outputted
angle range than that of swashplates. Based on the integration
of the coaxial propellers with the two servomotors connected in
series, a detailed six-DoF model involving the drone’s position
and attitude dynamics is developed. Then, to design an efﬁcient
controller for the underactuated system based on the four control
inputs given by the two propellers and two servos, respectively, a
nonlinear control allocation approach is proposed, under which
the drone can produce desired control force and yaw torque to
stabilize the drone’s position and yaw angle. Finally, we validate
our established model and proposed control strategy through
both numerical simulations and real-ﬂight experiments.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section II
introduces the overall design of the coaxial drone. Section III
establishes the attitude and position dynamics for the coaxial
drone. The control design is provided in Section IV. Sections V
and VI present the simulation results and experimental results,
respectively. Finally, Section VII concludes this article.
II. D ESIGN OF THE COAXIAL DRONE
In this section, we introduce the design of the coaxial drone.
First, we present the drone’s overall mechanical structure and
then introduce different rigid bodies in the coaxial drone and
their respective coordinate frames. Finally, we discuss the con-
nection of the coaxial propeller system, servomotors, and the
drone’s fuselage.
1[Online]. Available: https://mars.nasa.gov/technology/helicopter/status/
336/2800-rpm-spin-a-success-but-ﬂight-14-delayed-to-post-conjunction/
Fig. 1. Overall structure of the coaxial drone.
Fig. 2. Two servomotors’ rotating angles.
A. Overall Mechanical Structure
The coaxial drone consists of one propeller system, two ser-
vomotors and one lower fuselage section. The coaxial propeller
system consists of two counter-rotating rotors powered by a pair
of brushless motors that generate necessary thrust for ﬂight. The
two servomotors produce localized roll and pitch rotations of
the propeller system for thrust vectoring. A series of connecting
mounts also provide structural support for the coaxial drone.
The drone’s fuselage section houses the ﬂight controller, battery,
and other electrical components. The components located in the
drone’s fuselage have a relatively larger mass compared to the
servomotors and the propeller, resulting in the center of gravity
(CG) of the entire coaxial drone to be located in the fuselage
section. We assume that the CG of the entire drone is vertically
aligned with the CG of the drone’s fuselage. A representation
of the coaxial drone and its localized rotation angles are shown
in Figs. 1 and 2. In addition, since the airﬂow produced by the
propeller system is towards the direction from the propeller to
the fuselage, the fuselage part is designed to be as vertical as
possible, ensuring minimum obstruction to the airﬂow.
B. Rigid Bodies and Coordinate Frames
As shown in Fig. 1, there are four rigid bodies assembled
together to form the coaxial drone. We can introduce coordinate
frames for each of them to describe their relative positions in
space. The ﬁrst rigid body consists of the propeller system
and its rotation mount. The corresponding frame is represented
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 3 ===
1652 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
by ∑
p : Op −XpYpZp whose Op is ﬁxed to the center of
the contra-rotating rotors. The second rigid body consists of
the ﬁrst servomotor S1 and the rotation mounts attached to
its bottom surface. The corresponding frame is represented
by ∑
S1 : OS1 −XS1YS1ZS1 with OS1 ﬁxed to the center of
rotation axis of S1. In addition, S1 controls the roll angle δrφ of
the ﬁrst rigid bodyOp, where a counterclockwise rotation along
XS1 produces a positive roll (i.e., following the right-hand screw
rule). The third rigid body consists of the second servomotor S2
and its base mount, which is connected to the drone’s fuselage.
It has a frame of reference ∑
S2 : OS2 −XS2YS2ZS2 withOS2
ﬁxed to the center of rotation axis of S2.A l s o ,S2 controls the
pitch angle δrθ of the second rigid body OS1 where a coun-
terclockwise rotation along YS2 produces a positive pitch. The
fourth rigid body refers to the drone’s fuselage and its respecting
components. It has a body frame ∑
f : Of −XfYfZf withOf
being ﬁxed to the CG of the rigid body.
In the follow-up sections of this article, two frames are se-
lected as the main reference frames for the modeling of the drone.
The ﬁrst is the inertial coordinate frame ∑
i : Oi −XiYiZi
ﬁxed to the ground of Earth. The second is the body frame∑
b : Ob −XbYbZb whose origin Ob is rigidly attached to the
CG of the coaxial drone (the total mass of the drone is taken to
act at this point).
C. Connection of Coaxial Propeller , Servomotors, and
Fuselage
The coaxial drone has a simple assembly, with its mechanical
and electrical components connected in a vertical arrangement.
The coaxial propeller system serves as the primary source of
thrust for the drone along a common axis. A carefully designed
rotation mount provides sufﬁcient clearance for the unobstructed
rotation of the propeller byδrφ ∈[−90◦,90◦], as shown in Fig.2.
A stronger rotation mount is used for the secondary servomotor
S2 to support the combined weight of the propeller system
and S1. Similarly, Fig. 2 also shows that a rotation clearance
of δrθ ∈[−90◦,90◦] can be achieved by the subsequent mount
in the system, which indicates that the outputted angle range
of servomotors is larger than that of swashplates. This dual
arrangement of the servomotors allows the drone to perform
forward–backward and lateral maneuvers in ﬂight by rotating
the direction of the generated thrust. The usage of the anglesδrφ
andδrθ to maintain ﬂight stability of the drone is explored in the
follow-up sections of this article.
Another consideration for the assembly of the drone is the de-
sign of the connecting base mount (see the component between
OS2 and Ob in Fig. 1) attached between the end of S2 and the
drone’s fuselage. The dimensions of the base mount are designed
to allow for a secure connection for ease of assembly and
effective transfer of forces. The drone’s fuselage consists of two
housing frames that contain the ﬂight controller and the battery
pack, respectively. All remaining electrical cables and connect-
ing components are stored within the drone’s fuselage as well.
D. Comparison With the Existing Design of Coaxial Drones
The main difference between the coaxial drone introduced
in this article and other birotor coaxial drones developed in
Fig. 3. Comparison between a quadrotor and the coaxial drone.
[11], [15] lies in the mechanism designed to control the thrust
vectoring of the propeller system. In [11], [15], the proposed
coaxial drones utilize a swashplate platform to control their
direction of ﬂight, in which servomotors attached to the platform
change the pitch of the propeller blades at each rotation cycle
and then generate thrust components parallel to the desired
direction. Through this mechanism, thrust vectoring is indirectly
controlled by the servomotors. In [12, Section 2], two servomo-
tors in a parallel mechanism are used to control the tilt of the
swashplate. In [14], a bioinspired reaction wheel mechanism is
employed for the design of a coaxial helicopter. In this article, the
proposed coaxial drone design has two servomotors connected
directly to the propeller system through the use of individual
rotation mounts, under which the parallel coaxial propellers do
not need to tilt with respect to the rotors’ brushless motor to
achieve thrust vectoring. The main advantage of this design is
that it is more intuitive and mechanically simpler in maneuvering
the drone toward the desired ﬂight direction. The increase in
drone height due to the vertical arrangement of the servomotors
is compensated by the compact design of the drone fuselage. The
fuselage is assembled as modular sections, which also reduces
the drone’s weight as opposed to the bulky cylindrical housing,
as shown in [12] and [15]. The usage of swashplates involves
multiple moving parts actuated by servomotors and hence has
a higher probability of failure. For example, the Ingenuity heli-
copter has two swashplates for independent pitch control of each
rotor and is required to perform an automated check on all six
servos before each ﬂight. Another difference of using servomo-
tors to generate the drone’s roll and pitch motions is their larger
outputted angle range than that of swashplates, resulting in a
potential advantage and improved degree of control, as shown
in Fig. 2.
E. Comparison of Thrust Per Platform Area With Quadrotors
In this section, we compare the maximum thrust per platform
area between a quadrotor and the coaxial drone with similar
payload capabilities, as shown in Fig. 3.T oh a v eaf a i rc o m -
parison, we consider that both of the quadrotor and the coaxial
drone are designed with the same footprint area (characterized
by a square), the same size of payload, the same overall weight,
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 4 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1653
and rotational angular speed. Fig. 3 shows that the radius of the
quadrotor’s propeller is dr/2, while that of the coaxial drone is
dr . According to the aerodynamic actuator disk theory [17],t h e
magnitude of thrust generated by one rotor of the quadrotor can
be calculated by
Fpropeller1 = ρCTπ(dr/2)2(ωdr/2)2 = ρCTπω2d4
r/16 (1)
where ρis the density of air, CT is the lift coefﬁcient, and ωis
the angular velocity of the propeller. Then, the total thrust pro-
duced by a quadrotor isFquadrotor =4 Fpropeller1 = ρCTπω2d4
r/4.
By using similar calculations, the ideal thrust produced by
the coaxial drone isFcoaxial =2 Fpropeller2 =2 ρCTπω2d4
r , where
Fpropeller2 represents the thrust produced by each propeller in
the coaxial drone and the interaction effect between the two
propellers is neglected. In practice, the thrust loss caused by
the interaction effect is usually between 25% and 35% 2 (it is
claimed in [18] that the thrust loss is about 23%). Thus, although
we take into account the maximum thrust loss caused by the in-
teraction effect between the propellers [19], the produced thrust
0.65Fcoaxial =1 .3ρCTπω2d4
r of the coaxial drone is still larger
than that of the quadrotor. We will compare the produced thrust
between the coaxial drone and quadrotors in the experimental
section of this article.
Remark 1: In Fig. 3, the footprint of the drone is characterized
by a square. If the platform footprint is characterized by a circle
instead of a square, then the footprint of the coaxial drone
will decrease to πd2
r , but the footprint of the quadrotor will
increase to π( 1+
√
2
2 dr)2 according to the geometric relation.
This will further make the coaxial drone’s maximum thrust per
platform area even larger, and the quadrotor’s maximum thrust
per platform area even smaller, as compared to the case of using
square footprint.
Remark 2: A drone’s real ﬂight-time is related to many
factors, including the drone’s equipped battery, mass, size, and
mechanical structure. To have a fair comparison of ﬂight-time
for different drones, we need to keep all these factors the same,
which is difﬁcult since different types of drones have different
mass/sensors/components/actuators/batteries. As an alternative,
the index of power consumption is used in [6] to conduct the
comparison of power consumption among common multiro-
tor drones, which is based on the momentum theory and the
condition that all the drones share the same takeoff weight and
platform footprint. From [ 6, Fig. 4], one can see that the power
consumption of the coaxial drone is 0.707 times smaller than
that of the quadrotor.
III. M ODELING OF THE COAXIAL DRONE
To establish the coaxial drone’s position and attitude dynam-
ics, which characterize the relationship between the four control
inputs (Ω1,Ω2,δrφ andδrθ) and the resulting accelerations with
six DoF, we refer to the coordinate frames introduced in Sec-
tion II. As shown in Fig. 1, the body frame ∑
b : Ob −XbYbZb
whose origin Ob is rigidly attached to the CG of the coaxial
2[Online]. Available: https://www.tytorobotics.com/blogs/general-knowl
edge/coaxial-setup-and-testing
drone, Xb-axis points toward the drone’s forward direction,
Yb-axis points toward the drone’s right direction, and Zb-axis
follows the right-hand rule which points towards the propeller
if δrφ = δrθ =0 . The attitude and position dynamics in this
modeling are described with respect to the coordinate frame∑
i.
A. Attitude Kinematics and Dynamics
The attitude of the drone is described by three Euler angles
a =[ φ,θ,ψ]⊤ ∈R3, which characterize the rotation from∑
b to∑
i. According to mechanics of rigid bodies, the angular velocity
˙a of the drone in ∑
i can be transformed from ∑
b to ∑
i using
the equation
˙a =
⎡
⎣
˙φ
˙θ
˙ψ
⎤
⎦ =
⎡
⎣
1 SφTθ CφTθ
0 Cφ −Sφ
0 SφsecθC φsecθ
⎤
⎦
⎡
⎣
ωxb
ωyb
ωzb
⎤
⎦ = ¯Rωb
(2)
where ωb =[ ωxb,ωyb,ωzb]⊤ ∈R3 represents the angular ve-
locity vector consisting of roll, pitch, and yaw change rates of the
drone in ∑
b, and ¯R is a three-by-three transformation matrix,
and for notation conciseness C :c o s,S :s i n,T :t a n. Then,
from (2), one has
ωb = R ˙a = ¯R−1 ˙a =
⎡
⎢⎣
10 −Sθ
0 Cφ SφCθ
0 −Sφ CφCθ
⎤
⎥⎦ ˙a. (3)
According to the conservation theorem of angular momentum,
one has
( dH
dt
)
i
=
( dH
dt
)
b
+ωb ×(H)b (4)
where H ∈R3 is the angular momentum of the drone, (dH
dt )i
and (dH
dt )b are the time-derivatives of the angular momen-
tum described in ∑
i and ∑
b, respectively, × represents the
operation of cross product, and (H)b represents the angular
momentum in ∑
b. According to the deﬁnition of angular mo-
mentum, the changing rate of the drone’s angular momentum
in the inertial frame, (dH
dt )i = I ¨a, is equal to the sum of the
torque generated from the rotation of the drone’s body frame,
ωb ×(H)b = ωb ×Iωb, and the changing rate of the drone’s
angular momentum in its body frame(dH
dt )b = T b
t +T b
r , where
I ∈R3×3 is the inertia of the drone which is assumed as a
constant matrix, T b
t ∈R3 andT b
r ∈R3 are the applied torques
to the CG described in ∑
b, which are produced by the coaxial
propellers’ thrust and rotation, respectively. Then, according to
the coaxial drone’s mechanical structure in Fig. 1, one has
T b
t = rFt ×F b
t (5)
where F b
t ∈R3 is the thrust produced by the propeller system
in ∑
b whose speciﬁc form will be introduced later and rFt is
the position vector describing the point of thrust with respect to
the reference frame ∑
b. It can also be described as the vertical
distance of Op with respect to ∑
b which can be derived from
a series of transformation from ∑
S1 and ∑
S2 to ∑
b as shown
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 5 ===
1654 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
in the following:
OS1
p =
⎡
⎢⎣
10 0
0c o sδrφ −sinδrφ
0s i nδrφ cosδrφ
⎤
⎥⎦
⎡
⎢⎣
0
0
d1
⎤
⎥⎦ (6)
OS2
p =
⎡
⎢⎣
cosδrθ 0s i nδrθ
01 0
−sinδrθ 0c o sδrθ
⎤
⎥⎦
⎡
⎢⎣
⎡
⎢⎣
0
0
d2
⎤
⎥⎦ +OS1
p
⎤
⎥⎦ (7)
rFt =
⎡
⎣
0
0
d3
⎤
⎦ +OS2
p =
⎡
⎣
(d1 cosδrφ +d2)sin δrθ
−d1 sinδrφ
(d1 cosδrφ +d2)cos δrθ +d3
⎤
⎦
(8)
whered1 is the absolute distance fromOp toS1,d2 is the absolute
distance from S1 toS2, and d3 is the absolute distance from S2
toOb. Note that (7) and (8) represent the coordinate transforma-
tions required to account for the roll and pitch rotations along
the XS1 - and YS2 -axis, respectively. A ﬁnal translation of d3
along the direction Zb in (8) produces the position vector rFt
with respect to the reference frame ∑
b. Also, the control torque
induced by the rotation of the contra-rotating propellers can be
described as
T b
r = σ(γ1Ω2
1 −γ2Ω2
2)
⎡
⎢⎣
Sδrθ
Cδrφ
−Sδrφ
Cδrφ
Cδrθ
⎤
⎥⎦ (9)
where γ1 ∈R+ and γ2 ∈R+ are the lumped moment coef-
ﬁcients of the upper and lower propellers, respectively, and
0 <σ< 1 is the aerodynamic efﬁciency factor due to the exis-
tence of airﬂow interactions, andΩ1 ∈R,Ω2 ∈R are the upper
and lower propellers’ numbers of revolution per minute. Sum-
marizing (2)–(9) yields the drone’s overall attitude dynamics
I ¨a = Tt
b +Tr
b +(R ˙a)×IR ˙a (10)
where for an arbitrary vector x =[ x1,x 2,x 3]⊤ ∈R3,
x×:=
⎡
⎣
0 −x3 x2
x3 0 −x1
−x2 x1 0
⎤
⎦. Note that according to the
symmetric structure of the drone under δrφ = δrθ =0 ,
the inertia matrix can be approximately calculated as
I = diag(Ixx,Iyy,Izz) where Ixx ∈R+,Iyy ∈R+,Izz ∈R+
are the inertia along the X,Y,Z -axes of the drone’s ∑
b,
respectively.
B. Position Kinematics and Dynamics
Denote the position vector of the drone in ∑
i as p :=
[x,y,z ]⊤ ∈R3. According to mechanics of rigid bodies, the
linear velocity ˙p of the drone in ∑
i can be calculated by using
the equation
˙p =
⎡
⎢⎣
˙x
˙y
˙z
⎤
⎥⎦ = ¯Mv b = ¯M
⎡
⎢⎣
vbx
vby
vbz
⎤
⎥⎦ (11)
wherevb ∈R3 is the linear velocity described in ∑
b, and ¯M is
a three-by-three transformation matrix that can be written as
¯M =
⎡
⎢⎣
CθCψ SφSθCψ−CφSψ CφSθCψ+SφSψ
CθSψ SφSθSψ+CφCψ CφSθSψ−SφCψ
−Sθ SφCθ CφCθ
⎤
⎥⎦.
(12)
Then, it is straightforward that vb can be calculated by
vb = ¯M−1 ˙p = M ˙p (13)
whereM = ¯M−1. According to the Newton’s second law, one
can derive the position dynamics of the drone as
m
( dv
dt
)
i
= m
( dv
dt
)
b
+m(ωb ×vb) (14)
where the total force acting on the drone in the inertial frame
is the sum of the forces acting on the drone in its body frame
and the centripetal forces from the rotation of the body frame,
v ∈R3 represents the velocity of the drone, and(dv
dt )i and(dv
dt )b
are the accelerations of the drone described in ∑
i and ∑
b,
respectively. Note that the componentm(dv
dt )b in (14) represents
the applied force described in ∑
b of the drone, which consists
of two components, i.e.,
m
( dv
dt
)
b
= F b
t +F b
g (15)
where F b
t ∈R3 is the thrust from the propellers, and F b
g ∈R3
is the gravity component, of which both are described in ∑
b.
Now, we aim to obtain the speciﬁc forms for these components.
First, the thrust from the propellers can be described with respect
to ∑
p as Ftp =
⎡
⎣
0
0
σ(αΩ1
2 +βΩ2
2)
⎤
⎦, where α∈R+ and β∈
R+ are the lumped thrust coefﬁcients of the upper and lower
propellers, respectively. Then, we need to transferFtp from ∑
p
to ∑
b to obtain F b
t . According to the geometric relationship in
Fig. 2, one has
F b
t = σ(αΩ1
2 +βΩ2
2)
⎡
⎢⎣
Sδrθ
Cδrφ
−Sδrφ
Cδrθ
Cδrφ
⎤
⎥⎦. (16)
According to Fig. 2, the gravity component of the drone de-
scribed in ∑
b is
F b
g = M
⎡
⎢⎣
0
0
−mg
⎤
⎥⎦ = −mg
⎡
⎢⎣
−sinθ
cosθsinφ
cosθcosφ
⎤
⎥⎦. (17)
Summarizing (11)–(17) yields the drone’s overall position dy-
namics
m ¨p = F b
t +F b
g +mω×
b M ˙p
= F b
t +F b
g +m(R ˙a)×M ˙p (18)
where M deﬁned in (13) is always nonsingular, which makes
(18) well-deﬁned.
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 6 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1655
C. Analysis of the Overall Six DoF Dynamics
From the last section, the overall attitude and position dynam-
ics can be written in a compact form as
{ I ¨a−T b
t −T b
r −(R ˙a)×IR ˙a =0
m ¨p−F b
t −F b
g −m(R ˙a)×M ˙p =0 . (19)
Now, we analyze the properties of the overall dynamics (19),
which will be the foundation for the control design.
1) Underactuated Dynamics: In the overall nonlinear dy-
namics (19), the states [a⊤,p⊤]⊤ ∈R6 are six dimensions.
However, the control input[Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ] ∈R4 are only four
dimensions, which implies an underactuated dynamics. There-
fore, we are only able to fully control four states. As similar to
the quadrotor case, the three DoF positions and yaw angle are
usually more of importance in many applications. Therefore, we
can select them as the four controllable states, and ﬁrstly leave
roll and pitch angles as uncontrollable states.
2) Coupling Effect: The attitude dynamics in (19) are inde-
pendent to the position dynamics, while the position dynamics
are coupled with the attitude dynamics due to the existence of
the component m(R ˙a)×M ˙p. Due to the absence of an attitude
damping part in(10), the attitude dynamics are naturally unstable
in the sense that given a nonzero initial states, the attitude
may diverge or oscillate without external control torques. This
can be veriﬁed by linearizing the attitude dynamics around the
equilibrium ˙a =0 . Thus, additional damping components are
needed to stabilize the attitude dynamics. In addition, due to the
existence of the gravity componentF b
g in the position dynamics,
the control force F b
t should not be zero even at a stable state.
3) Model Accuracy: In this model, the drone has been de-
signed such that its CG lies at the center of its fuselage section.
This design speciﬁcation can be achieved by moving the heavier
components in the drone into the fuselage section. In addition,
according to the later simulation and experiments, the drone
keeps almost vertical during hovering and slowly maneuvering
missions, for which the current modeling based on static CG
can be used in many scenarios. While for fast maneuvering
mission, the modeling based on multibody dynamics might be
more appropriate, which will be considered as our future work.
D. Comparison of Overall Dynamics With Quadrotors
We provide a complete comparison between the coaxial drone
and quadrotors from the perspective of motion dynamics. By
letting the common parameters the same, such as the air den-
sity ρand the drones’ mass m, Table I summarizes the main
differences between these two types of drones. According to
TableI, the produced thrust along roll or pitch axis is obtained by
projecting the overall thrust to the roll or pitch axis. Therefore,
under the common parameters and allowed tilting angles, the
coaxial drone’s thrust along the roll or pitch axis is larger than
the corresponding one produced by quadrotors. In addition, to
accelerate along the pitch axis, quadrotors need to adjust their
attitudes to incline ﬁrst, then use the projected thrust to produce
the desired motion in the pitch axis. Different from quadrotors,
the coaxial drone can produce the thrust along the pitch axis
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF THE COAXIAL DRONE AND QUADROTORS
directly by tilting the lower servomotor, which is also shown in
Table I’s second line from the bottom.
IV . CONTROL OF THE COAXIAL DRONE
As stated in Section III-C, we aim to control p and ψusing
Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ. Due to the high nonlinear property of the dy-
namics (19), we ﬁrst design a desired control force and yaw
torque to stabilize p and ψ, then allocate the desired control
force and yaw torque to the four real control inputs.
A. Desired Control Input
For the attitude dynamics, consider a desired yaw angle
ψd(t) ∈R, which is continuous and twice differentiable. Then,
to makeψ(t) trackψd(t), the desired control yaw torque can be
designed as
Tψd = −
⎡
⎢⎣
0
0
1
⎤
⎥⎦
⊤
(R ˙a)×IR ˙a
+Izz
[
¨ψd −kd( ˙ψ− ˙ψd)−kp(ψ−ψd)
]
(20)
wherekd > 0,kp > 0 are velocity feedback and state feedback
gains, respectively.
For the position dynamics, consider a desired ﬂight trajectory
pd(t) ∈R3, which is continuous and twice differentiable. Then,
based on the fully actuated system approaches [21], the desired
control force can be designed as
Fd = −F b
g −m(R ˙a)×M ˙p
+m
[
¨pd −kd( ˙p− ˙pd)−kp(p−pd)
]
. (21)
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 7 ===
1656 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
Then, we have the following results.
Theorem 1: For the coaxial drone whose dynamics are mod-
eled as (19), if the control inputs Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ are designed
such that
[0,0,1](T b
t +T b
r ) = Tψd, F b
t = F d (22)
then the position error ˜p(t)= p(t)−pd(t) and yaw angle error
˜ψ(t)= ψ(t)−ψd(t) converge to zero.
Proof: Substituting the controllers (20)–(22) into the overall
dynamics (19) yields
{
m ¨˜p(t)+ mkd˙˜pp(t)+ mkp ˜p(t)=0
Izz
¨˜ψ(t)+ Izzkd
˙˜ψ(t)+ Izzkp ˜ψ(t)=0 .
(23)
Since m> 0 and Izz > 0, the characteristic polynomial of the
linear dynamics (23) can be written as
s2 +kds+kp =0 (24)
wheres ∈C. Sincekd > 0 andkp > 0, ˜p(t) and ˜ψ(t) converge
to zero. □
B. Control Allocation
Note that Theorem 1 relies on the assumption that (22) should
hold. In this section, we investigate how to design control inputs
Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ such that (22) holds, which is inherently a
control allocation problem.
First, substituting the deﬁnitions ofT b
t andT b
r in (5)–(9) into
(22) yields
Tψd = σ
[
Cδrθ
Cδrφ
(
γ1Ω2
1 −γ2Ω2
2
)
+d2Sδrθ
Sδrφ
(
αΩ2
1 +βΩ2
2
)]
. (25)
Then, substituting the deﬁnition of F b
t in (16) into (22) yields
Fd(1) =σSδrθ
Cδrφ
(
αΩ2
1 +βΩ2
2
)
(26)
Fd(2) =−σSδrφ
(αΩ2
1 +βΩ2
2) (27)
Fd(3) =σCδrθ
Cδrφ
(
αΩ2
1 +βΩ2
2
)
. (28)
Note that Tψd,Fd(1),Fd(2),Fd(3) are known from the right-
hand side of (20) and (21). Therefore, we need to ﬁnd a unique
mapping fromΩ2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ toTψd,Fd(1),Fd(2),Fd(3) such
that (25)–(28) holds.
Different from linearization-based control approach [14],w e
propose a precisely nonlinear control allocation approach here.
Dividing (26) by (28) yields
δrθ = arctanFd(1)
Fd(3). (29)
Dividing (27) by (28) yields
δrφ = −arctan
Fd(2)Cδrθ
Fd(3) (30)
whereCδrθ
can be known from (29). After the knowledge ofδrθ
andδrφ, (28) can be rewritten as
αΩ2
1 +βΩ2
2 = Fd(3)
σCδrθ
Cδrφ
. (31)
Substituting (31) into (25) yields
γ1Ω2
1 −γ2Ω2
2 =
TψdCδrθ
Cδrφ
−Fd(3)d2Sδrθ
Sδrφ
σC2
δrθ
C2
δrφ
. (32)
Combining (31) and (32) yields
Ω2
1
=
γ2Fd(3)Cδrθ
Cδrφ
+βTψdCδrθ
Cδrφ
−βFd(3)d2Sδrθ
Sδrφ
σC2
δrθ
C2
δrφ
(αγ2 +βγ1)
(33)
Ω2
2
=
γ1Fd(3)Cδrθ
Cδrφ
−αTψdCδrθ
Cδrφ
+αFd(3)d2Sδrθ
Sδrφ
σC2
δrθ
C2
δrφ
(αγ2 +βγ1) .
(34)
Now, we summarize the control allocation steps as the following
results.
Proposition 1: Given the desired yaw torque Tψd and force
F d and the relationship (25)–(28), the four control inputs can be
uniquely allocated using (29), (30), (33), and (34). Moreover, if
we command the coaxial drone according to(29), (30), (33), and
(34), then the tracking errors ˜p(t)= p(t)−pd(t) and ˜ψ(t)=
ψ(t)−ψd(t) converge to zero.
Since all the calculation steps from (29)–(34) are unique, it is
straightforward to have the proof of Proposition 1.
Remark 3: In (29), (30), (33), and (34), due to the existence
of denominator parts in the calculations of the control inputs
Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ, it is very important that the calculation of (29),
(30), (33), and (34) should not have singularities. Since the
drone’s gravity force needs to be canceled by Fd(3), the magni-
tude of Fd(3) will be sufﬁciently away from zero, which makes
the calculation (29)–(30) singularity-free. Also, the desired tilt
angles will be zero when the drone is hovering and be bounded
when the drone is maneuvering, which makes the calculation
(33) and (34) also singularity-free.
C. Damping Uncontrolled Roll and Pitch Dynamics
After the position and yaw angle of the drone are controlled
to track their desired trajectory and yaw angle, the dynamics of
the roll and pitch angles will be fully uncontrolled and evolve
according to (19). According to (20) and (21), the divergence
of the roll and pitch angular velocities will also make the whole
system divergent since both Tψd and F d will become inﬁnite,
thus making Ω2
1,Ω2
2,δrθ,δrφ also inﬁnite. Therefore, to avoid
this scenario, suppressing the roll and pitch angular velocities is
crucial.
We note that the vibration of the roll and pitch angles of
the drone originates from the actions applied to the two tilt
servomotors. Therefore, a natural solution is to add roll and
pitch damping components into the corresponding servomotors.
More speciﬁcally, instead of commanding the two servomotors
according to (29) and (30), we command them by
δrθ = arctanFd(1)
Fd(3)+kθ˙θ (35)
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 8 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1657
δrφ = −arctan
Fd(2)Cδrθ
Fd(3) +kφ˙φ (36)
wherekθandkφare gain scalars, which can be tuned according
to the performance of experimental tests. We will show in the
next simulation and experimental sections that the damping
components in (35) and (36) are very efﬁcient to stabilize the
uncontrolled roll and pitch angular velocities.
Remark 4: Different from the controller designed in [12]
where the linearization technique is used to analyze the closed-
loop dynamics, our proposed controller uses a model-based
control allocation approach, where linearization is not needed.
Also, different from the nonlinear control approaches for coaxial
drones [12], [22], a novel nonlinear control allocation-based
approach is proposed for the designed coaxial drone.
Remark 5: There are four control gains kp,kd,kθ,kφ in the
proposed controllers (20), (21), (35), and (36). Indeed, different
selection of control gains will give different system performance,
for which we will tune the gain parameters ﬁrst in our ex-
periments. Since the position and attitude dynamics (19) are
second-order, the system performance may not be the best if the
gains are too large or small. In addition, the two servomotors’
updating frequency also determines the system performance,
where the difference is that the performance is usually better
given larger updating frequency.
Remark 6: In the proposed controllers (20), (35), and (36),
the angular velocities in roll, pitch, and yaw axes are needed,
which are usually noisy if they are obtained from a pure inertial
measurement unit (IMU). To improve IMUs’ measuring accu-
racy and reduce noise’s magnitude, many auxiliary measure-
ments and techniques have been developed, such as the sensor
fusion based on magnetic measurements and advanced digital
ﬁltering techniques. Therefore, we can get the angular velocities
with relatively small magnitude of noise from these IMUs. In
addition, from the dynamics of the drone, (19) indicates that
the system performance depends on the control laws’ PD gain
parameters, the damping gains, and the updating frequency of
the servomotors, etc. Therefore, by experimental tests, we need
to choose better control gains to mitigate the negative effect of
measurement noises.
V. N UMERICAL SIMULA TIONS
In this section, we conduct two types of simulations,
namely mathematical model simulation and physical model
simulation, to verify the established model and validate
the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy. The re-
lated parameters of an actual manufactured coaxial drone
are listed in the following, which are also used in all the
simulation examples in this section: mass m = 652.3 g,
d1 =6 7.1mm, d2 =6 7.2mm, d3 =4 6.6mm, and inertial ma-
trixI =
⎡
⎣
5.83×106 00
05 .64×106 0
00 3 .79×105
⎤
⎦g· mm2 (ob-
tained from the Solidworks software), γ1 =0 .000182,γ2 =
0.000207,α=0 .01227,β=0 .01261, and σ=0 .673387 (ob-
tained from experimental tests which will be introduced in next
section). The damping gains are selected as kθ=0 .03,kφ=
Fig. 4. Mathematical model simulation for the hovering case with damping
(35) and (36) (MA TLAB).
0.03, which are used in all the following simulations and the
ﬂight experiments. The initial states are p(0) = [0,0.01,0]⊤
and a(0) = [0,0.01,0]⊤. The video showing the simulation
results and the designed coaxial drone’s real ﬂight tests has been
uploaded in the supplementary materials, available online, due
to space limitations. 3
A. Mathematical Model Simulation in MATLAB
This simulation is conducted upon the established mathemat-
ical model (19). First, we consider a hovering mission for the
drone by assigning the desired position as pd =[ 0,0,2]⊤m and
desired yaw angle as ψd =0 .8 rad. Under the gain parameters
kp =0 .8,kd =0 .23 and the damping terms (35) and (36),t h e
simulation results are shown in Fig.4. From the position tracking
error and the evolution of the drone’s attitude, one can see that
the desired position and desired yaw angle are achieved within
about 25 s. The four motors’ output shows that each propeller
will produce about mg/2[N] thrust when the position of the
drone reaches its destination. The trajectory of the drone is also
shown in the last subﬁgure of Fig. 4. To show the effect of the
proposed damping terms in (35) and (36), we also conduct a
mathematical model simulation for the hovering case with the
same gain parameters but without the damping terms (35) and
(36). According to the simulation results in Fig. 5, although
the position tracking error, pitch angle and roll angle become
smaller, the yaw angle is unstable and the output of the servo-
motors is unstable. This validates that the proposed damping
terms (35) and (36) are very important in the stabilization of the
drone’s attitude.
Then, we consider a maneuvering mission for the drone by
assigning the desired position as pd(t) = [sint,cost,1]⊤m and
desired yaw angle as ψd =0 .8 rad. By using the gain values
kp =0 .8,kd =2 , the simulation results are shown in Fig. 6.F o r
the maneuvering case, one can also see that the desired position
and yaw angle are achieved within about 20 s, where small track-
ing errors exist in x and y directions. Note that when the drone
3[Online]. Available: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1x5411y7g9/?spm_
id_from=333.999.0.0
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 9 ===
1658 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
Fig. 5. Mathematical model simulation for the hovering case without damping
(35)–(36) (MA TLAB).
Fig. 6. Mathematical model simulation for the maneuvering case (MA TLAB).
achieves the maneuvering mission, the row and pitch angles
change periodically, and the outputs of the two servomotors also
change periodically. This is because the desired maneuvering
trajectory changes periodically. The last subﬁgure of Fig. 6
shows that the desired trajectory is achieved by the drone. This
validates the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy for
the coaxial drone in tracking a time-varying trajectory.
B. Physical Model Simulation in Unreal Engine
This simulation is conducted on the physical drone model
established in Unreal Engine software, which is exported from
Solidworks. We also consider hovering and maneuvering tasks
with the same desired trajectories. To compare with the math-
ematical simulation, we use the same PD gain values in this
simulation. However, to eliminate constant convergence error,
we employ PID in this simulation, where the gain for the
integral term is 0.98. The simulation results for the hovering
case are provided in Fig. 7, where the output of servomotors, the
evolution of the ﬂight trajectory and position tracking error are
similar between Figs. 4 and 7.
The simulation results for the maneuvering case are provided
in Fig. 8. Compared to Fig. 6, the ﬂight trajectory and the output
Fig. 7. Physical model simulation for the hovering case (Unreal Engine).
Fig. 8. Physical model simulation for the maneuvering case (Unreal Engine).
of the servomotors are similar in Fig. 8. These simulation results
validate that the established mathematical model of the drone
is close to the physical model of the drone in the simulation
environment, in which their difference is mainly caused by the
modeling error.
VI. R EAL-FLIGHT EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we conduct four classes of experimental tests
on our physical coaxial drone to validate its design and the
proposed control strategy. The ﬁrst two classes of experiments
aim to validate the design by testing the coaxial propellers’ thrust
efﬁciency and comparing the thrust produced by the coaxial
drone and quadrotors. The latter two classes of experiments aim
to validate the proposed control strategy by testing the effect
of the designed damping terms and testing the hovering ﬂight.
Note that the values of thrust efﬁciency and lumped thrust and
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 10 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1659
Fig. 9. Designed coaxial drone and its main components.
Fig. 10. Graphical representation of components’ connection.
moment coefﬁcients are obtained in Section VI-E, which are
used in the aforementioned simulation examples. The gain val-
ues employed in the follow-up experiments are the same as those
in the previous MA TLAB simulation. In the following sections,
we ﬁrst introduce the system framework and the components’
connection, then introduce these four experiments, respectively.
A. System Framework and Components’ Connection
A ss h o w ni nF i g .9, the physical drone follows the exact design
introduced in Section II, where four components are stacked in
the fuselage, including battery, STM32 micro controller unit
(MCU), IMU sensor, and time of ﬂight (TOF) sensor (which
can be used to measure the ﬂight height during each updating
interval).
As shown in Fig. 10, the electronic components in the
drone are organized in a manner to optimize overall ﬂow of
power and signals’ connection. Speciﬁcally, the coaxial drone
is powered by a 3S Li-Po battery, where voltage regulators
are employed to obtain suitable operating voltages for other
components. The ﬂight controller is implemented upon the MCU
STM32F405RGT6 at a core frequency of 168 MHz. The codes
inside the MCU are developed and debugged on VSCODE and
PlatformIO IDE with C++. The MCU communicates with the
host computer through the DX-BT04 Bluetooth module at a
baud rate of 115 200 bps via the channel USART1, where the
Fig. 11. (a) Testing platform. (b) Force sensor.
transmitted data consists of control commands (such as takeoff
and landing) and preset parameters. IMU data are transmitted
by the channel USART2 under an interrupt mode at a baud rate
of 115200 bps. TOF sensor data are transmitted by the channel
USART3 under an interrupt mode at a baud rate of 921600 bps.
The control algorithm proposed in this article is executed under
the timer interrupt with an updating frequency of 250 Hz. The
magnitude of the four control outputs are represented by pulse
width modulation (PWM) signals with a common frequency of
100 Hz, which are used to control the propellers and servomo-
tors.
The MCU sets four interrupt priority levels, where the order
is USART1, timer interrupt, USART3, and USART2. After the
drone is powered on, it enters the initialization mode and waits
for a JSON-formatted string input to adjust target height, PID pa-
rameters, damping ratio, servo sensitivity, and other parameters.
After initialization is complete, the drone will ﬂy autonomously
according to the calculated control commands. During ﬂight, the
MCU will also upload the control commands and the sensing
data obtained from, e.g., IMU to the hoster computer via the
Bluetooth at a frequency of 25 Hz.
B. Experimental Tests on the Thrust Efﬁciency
The coaxial drone’s thrust efﬁciency plays an important role in
Sections II-E and III-A, for which we now design experiments
to test its value. The testing platform is shown in Fig. 11(a).
We have used a high-precision sensor, A TI DAQ Net F/T 4,t o
measure the force and torque produced by the drone. The upper
side of the sensor is rigidly attached to the bottom of the drone,
and the bottom side of the sensor is ﬁxed by a ground station, as
shown in Fig. 11(b). Using the software from the company A TI,
we could read the force and torque applied to the drone, which
is produced by the rotation of the propellers. Fig. 12 shows the
testing data and the ﬁtting relation from the PWM signal (pro-
duced from electronic speed controller, ESC) to the produced
thrust. The existence of energy loss is clearly shown in Fig. 12
since the sum of the individual propeller’s produced thrust is
higher than the thrust produced by the coaxial propellers. Using
these testing data, the energy loss coefﬁcients of the thrust is
approximated as σ≈ 0.0167
0.0122+0.0126 ≈67.3%, in which we use
the ESC’s PWM value to replace the propellers’ rotating speed in
4[Online]. Available: https://www.ati-ia.com/products/ft/sensors.aspx
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 11 ===
1660 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
Fig. 12. Testing results on the thrust produced by the coaxial drone and the
quadrotor.
Fig. 13. Testing results on the thrust and current produced by the coaxial drone
and quadrotor.
Fig. 14. Testing results on the thrust and power produced by the coaxial drone
and quadrotor.
this calculation since the propellers’ rotating speed is unavailable
and the rotation of the propellers are controlled by the ESC. To
further show the thrust efﬁciency, we also show the testing results
on the drone’s produced current, thrust, and power in Figs. 13
and 14. The current and power are measured by a specialized
instrument MDA 8000HD Motor Drive Analyzers.
C. Thrust Comparison Between the Coaxial Drone and a
Quadrotor
To validate the comparison in Section II-E, we conduct real
experiments on the coaxial drone and a quadrotor whose pro-
peller size is half of that of the coaxial drone, as shown in
Fig. 15. The experiments are also conducted on the testing
platform introduced in Fig. 11(a). To have a fair comparison,
Fig. 15. (a) Coaxial drone. (b) Quadrotor.
Fig. 16. Testing the effect of the damping gains and motors’ updating fre-
quency.
the other testing conditions, parameters and devices are kept the
same as much as possible, such as the ESC. The testing results
are shown in Fig. 12, which indicates that the coaxial drone’s
produced thrust is always larger than that of the quadrotor. Using
these data given in Fig. 12, the range of Thrust-Coaxial propellers
Thrust-Quadrotor can
be calculated, which is (2.75,9.38). Indeed, the corresponding
theoretical radio 1.3
1/4 =5 .2 given in Section II-E is in this
experimental range. Furthermore, the comparison of current and
power for the coaxial drone and quadrotor is provided in Figs.13
and 14, from which one has that with the same produced thrust,
the quadrotor needs higher current and power than that of the
coaxial drone.
D. Experimental Tests on the Damping Gains and Motors’
Updating Frequency
As introduced in Remark5, the four control gains and motors’
updating frequency determine the coaxial drone’s system perfor-
mance. Thus, our intent in this section is to obtain the best control
gains and updating frequency for ﬂights by testing the system re-
sponse under different parameters. As shown in Fig.16, when the
drone’s initial height is exactly or very close to the desired height
(realized by suspending the drone with two lines connected with
two ground poles), the drone’s motion along yaw axis is minor.
Then, the oscillation of the drone along the roll axis describes the
system performance of the drone’s dynamics along the roll axis
(the motion along pitch axis is restricted by the lines). Therefore,
as shown in Fig. 16, we can use the maximum distancedm of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 12 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1661
TABLE II
EFFECT OF DAMPING GAINS AND UPDA TINGFREQUENCY
Fig. 17. V ertical ascending ﬂight.
drone’s motion in the horizontal plane to approximately char-
acterize the system performance of the drone’s roll dynamics.
Then, one has dm ≈|maxx[¯k]−minx[k]|,∀¯k,k =1 ,2,... ,
which can be obtained from our on-board sensor measurements,
speciﬁcally the motion distance and the drone’s attitude. The
testing results are summarized in Table II. From the table, the
best parameters arekθ=0 .03,kφ=0 .03,f servo = 250Hz since
the oscillation is minimum among these cases.
E. Experimental Tests on V ertical Ascending Flight
In this experiment, we conduct vertical ascending ﬂight where
the drone is commanded to reach a target height. Indeed, to
achieve such mission, accurate height measurements are needed,
which is based on the fusion of the TOF and IMU measurements
since TOF sensor measures motion distance and IMU measures
the drone’s attitude. The drone’s ﬂight results are shown in
Figs. 17 and 18. To validate our proposed control strategy,
we developed our own ﬂight control platform for the coaxial
drone. Due to the absence of global positioning system, the
maneuvering ﬂight task is challenging, for which we tested the
maneuvering ﬂight under a manual control mode. The ﬂight
results under these cases can be found in the video.
Meanwhile, based on the analysis of the experimental data
in the above-mentioned ascending ﬂight, it is observed that
the drone became less stable when it operates in the air with
longer time. Speciﬁcally, after the drone reaches the desired
position, it gradually become less stable. This is mainly caused
by the measurement inaccuracy (or error accumulation) of the
drone’s state from IMU, which is directly included in the drone’s
control algorithm. Therefore, to avoid this issue, our platform
is also tested based on the advanced sensor fusion and ﬁltering
Fig. 18. Experimental data in the vertical ascending ﬂight.
Fig. 19. Experimental data in the hover ﬂight.
techniques embedded in Pixhawk 4 mini, in which the existing
control allocation framework is employed. The ﬂight results
are shown in Fig. 19 and the video. According to Fig. 19,t h e
attitude and position of the drone are almost maintained, and the
motors’ output is relatively stable during the hover. This further
demonstrates the effective design of the drone and highlights the
contributions of the experiments.
Comparing the experimental data with the simulation data,
one has that there exist common aspects and also differences.
The common aspects include the effect of the damping compo-
nents and the trend of the control outputs, while the differences
include the employed gain values and the system evolution. The
reason of their difference is caused by the modeling inaccuracy,
for which the best gain for the simulation example might not the
best for the experiment. Although there exist differences, the
established mathematical model helps us understand the drone
and propose a controller, and the simulations help us verify them
rapidly.
VII. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this article, we have designed an innovative coaxial drone
such that the advantages of maximum thrust per platform area
and ﬂight maneuverability can be simultaneously actualized
using thrust-vectoring coaxial propellers. The contra-rotating
coaxial propellers can be actuated using a left–right tilt
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 13 ===
1662 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 40, 2024
servomotor and a back–forward tilt servomotor connected
vertically in series. The drone’s position and attitude dynamics
with six DoF have been modeled, which is underactuated
since the number of the control inputs is only four. An efﬁcient
controller with a nonlinear control allocation has been proposed.
For the uncontrolled roll and pitch dynamics, a damping part
has been delicately added such that the roll and pitch angular
velocities can also be stabilized. Both numerical simulations and
real experiments have been conducted, which have validated
the effectiveness of the drone design, the established model and
the proposed control strategy.
An interesting direction for future work is the usage of the
coaxial drone for aerial manipulation. Speciﬁcally, if an one-link
arm is installed at the bottom side of the drone and the other
side of the arm is with adhesive/magnetic mechanisms, then the
coaxial drone can be used to pick up a target and move it to a
destination. In such case, the CG of the combined arm and drone
is shifted downward, as compared with the original drone. If the
connection between the arm and the target is rigid, then the arm
and the target can be regarded as a part of the drone’s fuselage
part, in which our proposed control design still applies. For the
case of a two-link arm, if the two links are not vertical, then
the assumption regarding the CG of the whole structure may be
violated. An alternative for such case is to use the Lagrangian
approach to model the dynamics of the drone. Speciﬁcally, we
need to calculate the kinetic and potential energy of the drone
consisting of multibody components. However, the established
Lagrangian model will be quite nonlinear, whose control design
usually needs the usage of the tool of feedback linearization.
Another possible alternative is via coordinating two such coaxial
drones for aerial manipulation tasks, in which the positions of the
two coaxial drones are symmetric with respect to the geometric
center of the whole combined system, in which the control
design for such system can be handled based on the symmetry
of this system and the control design for single coaxial drone.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank Karanjot Singh and Jun Kiat
Tan from Nanyang Technological University for the helpful
discussion on the design of the drone, and assistance on the
ﬂight tests of the drone. Any opinions, ﬁndings and conclusions
or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the
authors and do not reﬂect the views of the A*STAR.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Rakha and A. Gorodetsky, “Review of unmanned aerial system
(UAS) applications in the built environment: Towards automated building
inspection procedures using drones,” Automat. Construction , vol. 93,
pp. 252–264, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0926580518300165
[2] A. Restas et al., “Drone applications for supporting disaster management,”
World J. Eng. Technol., vol. 3, no. 3, 2015, Art. no. 60553.
[3] B. Mishra, D. Garg, P . Narang, and V . Mishra, “Drone-surveillance
for search and rescue in natural disaster,” Comput. Commun. , vol. 156,
pp. 1–10, 2020.
[4] J. Seo, L. Duque, and J. Wacker, “Drone-enabled bridge inspec-
tion methodology and application,” Automat. Construction , vol. 94,
pp. 112–126, 2018.
[5] S. Driessens and P . Pounds, “The triangular quadrotor: A more ef-
ﬁcient quadrotor conﬁguration,” IEEE Trans. Robot. , vol. 31, no. 6,
pp. 1517–1526, Dec. 2015.
[6] Y . Qin, W. Xu, A. Lee, and F. Zhang, “Gemini: A compact yet efﬁcient
bi-copter UA V for indoor applications,”IEEE Robot. Automat. Lett.,v o l .5 ,
no. 2, pp. 3213–3220, Apr. 2020.
[7] Z.-Y . Lv, Y . Wu, Q. Zhao, and X.-M. Sun, “Design and control of a
novel coaxial tilt-rotor UA V,”IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. , vol. 69, no. 4,
pp. 3810–3821, Apr. 2022.
[8] M. Ryll, H. H. Bülthoff, and P . R. Giordano, “A novel overactuated quadro-
tor unmanned aerial vehicle: Modeling, control, and experimental valida-
tion,” IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol. , vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 540–556,
Mar. 2015.
[9] F. Kendoul, I. Fantoni, and R. Lozano, “Modeling and control of a small
autonomous aircraft having two tilting rotors,”IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 22,
no. 6, pp. 1297–1302, Dec. 2006.
[10] M. Bangura and R. Mahony, “Thrust control for multirotor aerial vehicles,”
IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 390–405, Apr. 2017.
[11] A. Koehl, H. Rafaralahy, M. Boutayeb, and B. Martinez, “Aerodynamic
modelling and experimental identiﬁcation of a coaxial-rotor UA V,” J.
Intell. Robotic Syst. , vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 51–68, Mar. 2012. [Online].
Available: https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00684946
[12] Y . r. Wei, H. b. Deng, Z. h. Pan, K. W. Li, and H. Chen, “Research on a
combinatorial control method for coaxial rotor aircraft based on sliding
mode,” Defence Technol., vol. 18, pp. 280–292, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214914720305018
[13] B. Theys, G. Dimitriadis, P . Hendrick, and J. D. Schutter, “Inﬂuence
of propeller conﬁguration on propulsion system efﬁciency of multi-rotor
unmanned aerial vehicles,” inProc. Int. Conf. Unmanned Aircr . Syst., 2016,
pp. 195–201.
[14] S. Niu, J. Li, and Y . Shen, “Design, modeling and disturbance rejection
control of a bio-inspired coaxial helicopter MA V in atmospheric boundary
layer,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Biomimetics, 2015, pp. 1272–1277.
[15] X. Wang, K. Li, N. Zhao, and H. Deng, “Nonlinear dynamics modeling and
simulation of cylindrical coaxial UA V,” inProc. IEEE Int. Conf. Real-time
Comput. Robot., 2017, pp. 505–510.
[16] S. J. Haddadi, P . Zarafshan, and M. Dehghani, “A coaxial quadrotor ﬂying
robot: Design, analysis and control implementation,”Aerosp. Sci. Technol.,
vol. 120, 2022, Art. no. 107260.
[17] R. D. Kimberlin, Flight Testing of Fixed Wing Aircraft. Reston, V A, USA:
AIAA, 2003.
[18] A. Bondyra, S. Gardecki, P . Gasior, and W. Giernacki, “Performance of
coaxial propulsion in design of multi-rotor UA Vs,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Automat., 2016, pp. 523–531.
[19] Y . Lei and H. Wang, “Aerodynamic optimization of a micro quadrotor
aircraft with different rotor spacings in hover,” Appl. Sci., vol. 10, no. 4,
2020, Art. no. 1272.
[20] B. Xiao and S. Yin, “A new disturbance attenuation control scheme for
quadrotor unmanned aerial vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. , vol. 13,
no. 6, pp. 2922–2932, Dec. 2017.
[21] G. Duan, “High-order fully actuated system approaches: Part I. Models
and basic procedure,” Int. J. Syst. Sci. , vol. 52, no. 2, pp. 422–435, 2021.
[22] J. Chebbi, F. Defaÿ, Y . Brière, and A. Deruaz-Pepin, “Novel model-based
control mixing strategy for a coaxial push-pull multirotor,” IEEE Robot.
Automat. Lett., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 485–491, Apr. 2020.
Liangming Chen (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.E. degree in automation from Southwest Jiao-
tong University, Chengdu, China, in 2015, and the
Ph.D. degree in systems and control jointly from
the Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China,
and the University of Groningen, Groningen, The
Netherlands, from 2015 to 2021, respectively.
He is currently an Associate Professor with the
Southern University of Science and Technology,
Shenzhen, China. From 2021 to 2022, he was a Re-
search Fellow with Nanyang Technological Univer-
sity, Singapore. His research interests include multirobot systems and aerial
robotics.
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PDF PAGE 14 ===
CHEN et al.: DESIGN, MODELING, AND CONTROL OF A COAXIAL DRONE 1663
Jiaping Xiao (Graduate Student Member, IEEE) re-
ceived the B.E. degree in aircraft design and engineer-
ing and the M.S. degree in ﬂight dynamics and control
from Beihang University, Beijing, China, in 2014 and
2017, respectively. He is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree in intelligent systems and robotics with
the School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineer-
ing, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
From 2017 to 2020, he was a Software Engineer
with the Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, China. His research interests in-
clude machine vision and aerial robotics.
Yumin Zheng received the B.E. degree in measure-
ment and control technology and instruments from
the Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China, in
2021, and the M.Sc. degree in computer control and
automation from Nanyang Technological University
(NTU), Singapore, in 2022. He is currently work-
ing toward the Ph.D. degree in autonomous micro
systems with the School of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering, NTU.
From 2022 to 2023, he was a Research Associate
with NTU. His research interests include robotics,
embedded systems, and integrated circuit design.
N Arun Alagappan received the B.E. degree (Hons.)
in aerospace engineering from Nanyang Technologi-
cal University, Singapore, in 2022.
His research interests include mechanical design,
prototyping, and simulation of unmanned aerial ve-
hicles.
Mir Feroskhan (Member, IEEE) received the B.E.
degree (Hons.) from Nanyang Technological Univer-
sity (NTU), Singapore, in 2011, and the Ph.D. degree
from the Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne,
FL, USA, in 2016, both in aerospace engineering.
He is currently an Assistant Professor with the
School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering,
NTU. His research interests include nonlinear con-
trol systems, ﬂight dynamics and control, and aerial
robotics.
Authorized licensed use limited to: POSTECH Library. Downloaded on September 07,2026 at 04:00:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 